Now, you are surely already familiar with the concepts of call by
value and call by reference when passing variables to a function.
With regard to memory management,
the two concepts differ significantly from each
other as you have seen before and as you will see again.
When a function is called,
a stack frame is created which contains information about the function
such as the return address and all the local variables within the function scope.
When you pass a variable by value,
it will exist on the stack within the scope of
the color for example in main which you have seen countless times before.
When you declare a variable in main,
it's within the scope of the main function.
But when you pass it to a function,
it will also exist as a copy in the function itself,
so we have essentially doubled the memory load to hold the data.
The alternative is to call the function by reference and in doing so,
no local copy will be created on the stack.
Now, instead, you will be able to directly operate on
the original data that lives in the scope of the color.
The third alternative is a combination of both worlds.
You can also pass a pointer to a variable by
value which creates a local point of variable on the stack but allows you to,
using the pointer, directly manipulate the memory to which it points.
A pointer can also be null and you can initialize it within
the function which is not possible with references.
So let's take a look at call-by-value and
call-by-reference with memory management in mind.